Instructions
============

https://scipy2018.scipy.org/ehome/299527/648140/

Title
=====

Resonance: Learning Mechanical Vibrations Through Computational Thinking

The Short Description
=====================

*The brief description which will appear in the online program and give
attendees a basic sense of your talk. This should be around 100 words or less.*

In this talk I will describe a pilot project at the University of California,
Davis to redesign and teach an upper level mechanical vibrations engineering
course where students learn engineering concepts via computational thinking and
computational experimentation as opposed to the analtyical mathematic methods
used for the past century.

The Long Description
====================

*Your placement in the program will be based on reviews of your detailed
description. This should be a roughly 500 word detailed outline of your
presentation. This outline should concisely describe software of interest to
the SciPy community, tools or techniques for more effective computing, or how
scientific Python was applied to solve a research problem. A traditional
background/motivation, methods, results, and conclusion structure is encouraged
but not required. Links to project websites, source code repositories, figures,
full papers, and evidence of public speaking ability are encouraged.*

Software
--------

A custom Python library called "resonance" was developed for the course. This
library provides students with various mechanical systems in which they can
simulate to learn about various vibration concepts. We designed the software
with these goals in imind: 1) students should be able to experiment with
simualted systems in much the same way you might experiement with real systems,
2) the fine details of programming in Python should be hidden up front but be
able to be exposed through a scaffolded approach, 3) students should only have
to know basic programming concepts with writing functions as the primary means
to interact with the software, i.e. students should not have to create classes
but can still use and modify objects.
